POWER BI DESKTOP: 3 Layers are there
Data layer: Local copy of data inside powerbi
Model layer
Visual Layer
IMPORT: Data is copied from the source and stored locally inside the powerbi files, then used for visuals.
Load: File connection : Files can only be imported, no other connection types are available like live connection to excel file.
Import limitation: If the source file changes, powerbi does not automatically changes data
REFRESH: This will refresh and new data will be loaded 
Import will be very fast in performance, as data is sotred in column, compressed as well.

DIRECT QUERY: Data stays in the source system and powerbi sends quries to it whenever visuals need data. Permanent request. visual layer goes to model layer to fetch data
When conecting to database, power offer 2 options. Import, DirectQuery
IMPORT mode is one way decision, you cannot later switch to directquery.
DIRECT QUERY allows switching to import later, LOAD will just import structure(metadata) to powerbi.
Limitation of directquery: In table view, you cannot preview data as data is not loaded. Many DAX functions, calculated col and modeling features are unavailable
WHY? POWERBI ONLY READS DATA, IT NEVER MANIPULATES DATA IN THE SOURCE SYSTEM

Dual connection mode: Powerbi decides on its own if import or direct query should be used.

Live connection: Powerbi desktop connects directly to a shared semantic model in the powerbi service.
PowerBi Desktop(Build)----Publish----> PowerBi Service------LiveConnection------>PowerBi Desktop
If we have many files of same structure, we use folder option in GetDate
FolderDataPreview: It lists the file and binary represents the data insde each file.
Now beside load, Combine option is ther which will combine all files into one table
Publish: Share data+model+visual

Now as a buisness user if i want to work, Use already exisiting data.
Get Data---> More--->Microsoft Fabric----> PowerBi Semantic Models(here u can see the published items)
Once published the data and model stays in service not desktop.
Live Connection: Table view is disabled, Data model is fixed. You can only build reports
Now publish will only share visuals(reports)

.Extension types
When you try to save your work in PowerBi, you get a choice
Want to save you data in the file?
YES-------> Data+Model+Visual  .PBIX FILE
NO--------> Model+Visual  .PBIT FILE
PBIP FILE: PowerBi project file format that saves your powerbi work in multiple files for better teamwork and change management
-> For big projects, multiple people working together, helpful in CI/CD deployment
-> It creates 2 folder report and semantic and inside that multiple files

POWER QUERY:It is the data preparation and ETL engine in powerbi used to connect, clean and transform data before analysis.
SOURCE----->POWER QUERY----->MODELING----->DAX----->VISUALS----->SHARE



